Hello everybody and welcome back.
In this lecture we're going to have a look at something called depth of field.
It is often used to isolate a particular character or objects from its surroundings and background.
So we have a look at the scene in front of us here.
The background is definitely the white pieces and the focal points while we're looking smack bang at
our bishop it's right in front of us.
So the difference of applying depth of field can be quite dramatic as you can see here.
The bishop itself is fully in focus and this is the comparison from before.
Now some people like this fact some people don't if used well it can really make a change to a scene.
And I think it really does add a dramatic field to the scene and really does look like you're very close
to the object.
Now of course this can be refined and set up to be how you want it itself.
And this particular effect is a real world effect that happens with real cameras in cycles.
It will happen naturally you have to set anything up even however is a little more involved.
Let's hop into a blender and find out more.
OK so this is how our scene looks at the moment and there are several things to consider.
The first one being what you really need is a distinction between foreground and background.
If you don't have that everything's kind of flat like it is here.
Then adding depth of field is not going to make too much difference if there was something way behind
this particular chessboard or in front then adding depth fulfilled could be beneficial.
So let's go to a different camera view.
I think the camera near is gonna be the best one to work with on here.
Cisco control and zero and switch around to it.
And this is a great example with this perspective.
We've got the camera set up at 12 millimeters so it does look very wide angle of that particular setting
we can see here that the focal point really is that Bishop.
So what can we do here.
Well the first thing we can go ahead and do is turn on depth of field.
We scroll up on the properties panel we can see here we've got depth field as an option.
I would suggest leaving it just that's 100 pixels max size and shutting that down again.
Now in cycles you don't have to worry about setting it up.
If he forgets about it in evey you just won't see the effects happening.
Okay.
So the next thing we need to do once that's turned on is scroll back down and go to the camera properties.
Assuming of course you've still got your camera selected and at the moment I'm looking through the camera
near you go down to the camera properties we see that we've already played with the lens setting setting
different focal length.
We scroll down a little further we get this option depth of field.
If you click the little arrow to reveal the dropdown we first of all have a focus distance or a focus
on objects so you can focus on any of the objects in the scene.
Let's go ahead and use the eyedropper rather than this long list here because I'm not sure which Bishop
this is straight away.
We could use the eyedropper it's just here and there we go.
Bishop 1 black we can click on that and it sets that as the focus point the next setting is probably
the most critical.
It's the aperture now the aperture is the opening in a camera which lets light through the opening in
your eye for instance happens to be controlled by an IRS and the pupil size would be the aperture is
the hole that is letting the light in when the hole is small you can focus a very long distance so you
get a wider depth of field which means more of your image will be in focus and with a smaller number
less of it will be in focus.
So even though we've got the bishop selected if I was to set this as one everything goes blurry including
parts of the Bishop.
Now bear in mind because we've got the objects selected it won't be the surface nearest to us which
will be sharp and in focus it will be wherever the object is the middle of this object so we can control
that will learn more about controlling focus points later on for the moment we can just pick the object
itself.
So an f stop of one is too low for this particular scene.
Now depending on what scale you've made your model at these values will differ tremendously because
this is a very small scene.
Any changes because we're very close to this objects as well.
Any changes to the f stop will make dramatic changes to our scene if we change the scale of this make
let's make it a hundred times this scale then that will affect it as well.
In that case you will have to have a much lower f stop number to get the depth of field so that the
background is blurry.
For instance the next setting down is best controlled with Everything blurry so I can show you what's
going on with zero blades.
This is imitating a camera shutter the number of blades dictates the shape of the Boka or out of focus
areas.
So we're here we turn up the blades to one we can't do that the minimum number is three which makes
sense because that's the lowest polygon circle you can have and we can see that the Boka or the outer
focused areas look like triangles.
The rotation is also best experienced whilst it's at this setting you can see we've got the tweak as
to what angle at which the blurring happens.
Now you may want it low like this as an anesthetic especially if you're doing a more triangulated low
poly effect but I don't like that particular one I typically enjoy even five or six.
We shall be pentagons and hexagons accordingly.
So that's the sort of style I like in the rotation at that point really doesn't make a difference.
Well you may want it flat at the top in which case you would have to rotate it round ever so slightly
to around 27 20 30 degrees.
There we get the final one here the ratio is really to do with film making so if you were putting effects
into a film anamorphic lens is something you use in the film industry for the ultra wide angle look
it's just a way of compacting it down onto the sensor correctly but we're never gonna play with that
today.
It basically wishes things.
Here's the simple answer that.
Right.
So now that we've played with these options here and how to set it up it's time for your challenge Okay
so your challenge is to set up depth of field with your nearest camera.
And of course once you've done that I want to see it.
So please render it out and share its Paul's video now and give us a go okay.
Everybody welcome back.
Let's go ahead now hop into blender and set up out there for field Okay so we're at this stage at the
moment but I'm gonna revert back to the very beginning so we can follow the whole process through.
The first one is to pick on nearest camera.
Easily done.
Control and zero will switch around to that camera.
The next day I'm going to do is pick my bishop as a focus point and I can see here is Bishop 1 black
as well just in case I wanted to search for it.
Instead let's scroll all the way down to the camera property something a select camera near.
And here we go.
The camera properties have automatically been selected because we were looking at the object properties
before.
I'm going to scroll down go to my depth for field and focus on an object and we know it's Bishop 1 black.
We can pick it straight away.
Didn't happen to be thinking about that but you could also just type in Bishop for instance and it will
also bring up those various objects aperture setting.
I'm going to set it down around 3 to begin with.
Now if you were actually into photography you may actually start thinking well I might use one point
two or one point eight or two point four or two because these are commonly numbers you would actually
see when you're actually dialing in the aperture settings on a camera.
If you're doing that that's absolutely fine.
You already know what you're doing if you're playing with the aperture settings on a camera.
Before I go any further of course I'm gonna turn it on.
So there we go it's turned on.
Otherwise I won't be able to see what's going on back here.
F stop.
We can go backwards and forwards a little here.
That's one of the things I love about this updating live in the viewport.
I mean even the goal I've got here is to make sure that my bishop is in focus but the background is
blurred out just enough so we know that the pieces if we go too far what we tend to find is that even
around the bishop itself it starts to gets a bit blurry which is essentially what would happen in real
life.
Okay so one point six is far too much.
Let's bring that up and down.
I'm gonna pixel peep here.
I'm going to look at the edge of my bishop itself and see when it starts to go blurry so it definite
these highlights are pushing through and blurring out but the edges still remaining pretty sharp.
But I really want them to still be chess pieces you can kind of see that sir a knight and these are
pawns but let's bring that down.
Or sorry.
Up a little bit further.
So about an f stop of around 8:00 is good.
The other thing to bear in mind is the blade does change the image significantly.
So I'm going to set it to six if it's a bit lower.
It's down at three.
Everything looks just a little bit more sharp but a bit more distorted as well because of it being such
a low number of blades.
Something set our back up to six.
I don't care about how it's focused I'm not going to see any of the Bowker detail and I think that looks
really good.
I really like that I'm gonna render that out as a test.
That's another thing to bear in mind at the moment we're working and look Dev mode a lot.
We switch over to render mode you get more of that realistic looking render that we have when we go
ahead and press F 12 to render.
That's why there is a significant difference there there's probably a few of you thinking this is a
much cooler image in terms of its color temperatures a lot blue much more neutral than this one which
is lovely and warm and that's the reason why we're just not looking at it in the rendered mode of course
you can do that is entirely up to you.
And there we go.
We've got art that the field well done.
How did you guys get on.
Did you rearrange your board perhaps so you've got different objects in focus did you focus on a different
piece perhaps a piece that you're really proud of due to the extra time you spent with it.
Please share your work over in the discussions and I'll see you all in the next lecture.